index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Michael Hymel — CS 499 Capstone ePortfolio"
---

## Self Assessment

<p>
  The project presented in this portfolio demonstrates my ability to solve complex problems and implement
additional features within an existing application. Taking an existing project and enhancing it through critical thinkingand using outside resources like Android's development page. 
My work on these enhancements drew from early coding lessons from
my Computer Science program, including basic Java syntax, database management and querying, and working
with Android Studio. While I did not address all security concerns within the application, I documented them to show my ability to think with a security mindset.
</p>

<p>
For this project, I chose to enhance a previous Android Mobile Application I created in my CS 360 class in 2024.
This application is an Event Tracking Application. 
It originally only featured:
  - a sign-in page for returning users 
  - a registration option for new users.
  - Signed in users could only create events by navigating a calendar view and filling out an event form         with all relevant details.

  These events are saved to a SQLite database using local storage and are viewable when selecting
  the date they were scheduled.
</p>

<p>
Below are links to my initial code review video before enhancements and the enhancements themselves.
These are meant to showcase my growth in the Computer Science program with accompanied narratives.
</p>

---
# Navigate Porfolio

- [Code Review](pages/code-review.md)
- [Enhancement 1 - Type Field in Events Database](pages/enhancement1.md)
- [Enhancement 2 - Search Function for Events](pages/enhancement2.md)
- [Enhancement 3 - Exporting User's saved Events](pages/enhancement3.md)

Commit message:

Revise self-assessment and project details in index.md
Updated project description and enhancements details for clarity.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Michael Hymel — CS 499 Capstone ePortfolio"
---

## Self Assessment

<p>
  The project presented in this portfolio demonstrates my ability to solve complex problems and implement
additional features within an existing application. Taking an existing project and enhancing it through critical thinking and using outside resources like Android's development page and community resources.  Each enhancement of my original project 
</p>

<p>
I chose to enhance a previous Android Mobile Application I created in my CS 360 class in 2024.
This application is an Event Tracking Application.

  Once I completed the course the application only featured:
  - a sign-in page for returning users. 
  - a registration option for new users.
  - a database to store users and their events.
  - an interactive calendar and floating action button to add events.
  - simple UI design.

  These events are saved to a SQLite database using local storage and are viewable when selecting
  the date they were scheduled.

  My work on the following enhancements drew from early coding lessons from
my Computer Science program, including basic Java syntax, database management and querying, and working
with Android Studio. While I did not address all security concerns within the application, I documented them to show my ability to think with a security mindset.  </p>

<p>
Below are links to my initial code review video before enhancements and brief narratives of each enhancement.  

A link to the Full Source Code is also available in my Repo under Mobile2App.
</p>

---
# Navigate Porfolio

- [Code Review](pages/code-review.md)
- [Enhancement 1 - Type Field in Events Database](pages/enhancement1.md)
- [Enhancement 2 - Search Function for Events](pages/enhancement2.md)
- [Enhancement 3 - Exporting User's saved Events](pages/enhancement3.md)
- [View Full Source Code Repository](https://github.com/Michael9046/Michael9046.github.io)
